---
layout: post
title:  "ABC179 editorial"
date:   2020-09-19
categories: atCoder competitive-programming
permalink: /abc179-editorial.html
previewImage: /assets/img/previewImages/atcoder.png
---
This is an unofficial editorial for AtCoder [ABC179](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc179).
<!--more-->
# A - Plural Form
You just need to check the last character of the string. If it's `s`, add `es`; otherwise, add `s`. This can be done using one `if` statement.

Time complexity $$O(1)$$.

[Code](https://github.com/Ali-Ibrahim137/Competitive-Programming/blob/master/AtCoder/abc179/a.cpp)

# B - Go to Jail
Store in a `counter` variable the number of consecutive pairs such that $$D_{i, 1} = D_{i, 2}$$. Increase it by one when they are equal, and set it to zero when they aren't. If this `counter` becomes $$3$$, print `Yes`.

Time complexity $$O(N)$$.

[Code](https://github.com/Ali-Ibrahim137/Competitive-Programming/blob/master/AtCoder/abc179/b.cpp)

# C - A x B + C
We can brute force over $$A$$ and $$B$$ and check if $$C$$ is greater than $$0$$. This works because for every value of $$A$$ $$B$$ can take values exactly $$\frac{N}{A}$$. The total runtime complexity can be calculated as:
$$\sum_{A=1}^{N} \frac{N - 1}{A} = N \times \log(N)$$

Time complexity $$O(N \times \log(N))$$.

[Code](https://github.com/Ali-Ibrahim137/Competitive-Programming/blob/master/AtCoder/abc179/c.cpp)


# D - Leaping Tak
### Simple version
Let's try to solve the problem for $$N \le 1000$$. We will use dynamic programming to solve it. Let `dp[i]` equal the number of ways to reach cell $$i$$. It's clear that `dp[1] = 1`, and for every $$d \subset S$$ we can write `dp[i + d] += dp[i]`. Finally, the answer can be found at `dp[n]`.

### The solution
All the given $$k$$ segments are contiguous, so for some segment $$j$$ it will increase the answer for contiguous indexes between $$[i + L_j, i + R_j]$$ by the value of `dp[i]`. To implement this efficiently, we need a data structure that supports range updates. This can be done using Segment tree or BIT.

Time complexity $$O(N \times k \times \log(N))$$.

[Code](https://github.com/Ali-Ibrahim137/Competitive-Programming/blob/master/AtCoder/abc179/d.cpp)

# E - Sequence Sum
The main observation is $$M \le 10^5$$. This means that the sequence will enter a repeated cycle after a while. We just need to implement the operation and find the first time the cycle begins and the length of the cycle.

Time complexity $$O(M \times \log(M))$$.

[Code](https://github.com/Ali-Ibrahim137/Competitive-Programming/blob/master/AtCoder/abc179/e.cpp)

# F - Contrast
Let's see what happens when we apply the first operation. The number of changed black cells is equal to `N - i - 1`, where $$i$$ is the topmost row in that column containing a white cell. The same thing goes when we apply the second operation, but here $$i$$ is the leftmost column containing a white cell in that row. So we just need two segment trees, one for columns and one for rows.

For every query, let's change `x` to `n - x + 1`. To handle the first type, we find `i` by querying the $$x_{th}$$ column from the columns tree, decreasing the number of black cells, and then updating the range $$[i, N]$$ with value $$x$$ in the rows tree. Same thing goes with the second type queries.

Time complexity $$O(Q \times \log(N))$$.

[Code](https://github.com/Ali-Ibrahim137/Competitive-Programming/blob/master/AtCoder/abc179/f.cpp)
